
---

## Flawed brute-force protection

It is highly likely that a brute-force attack will involve many failed guesses before the attacker successfully compromises an account. Logically, brute-force protection revolves around trying to make it as tricky as possible to automate the process and slow down the rate at which an attacker can attempt logins. The two most common ways of preventing brute-force attacks are:

- Locking the account that the remote user is trying to access if they make too many failed login attempts
- Blocking the remote user's IP address if they make too many login attempts in quick succession

Both approaches offer varying degrees of protection, but neither is invulnerable, especially if implemented using flawed logic.

For example, you might sometimes find that your IP is blocked if you fail to log in too many times. In some implementations, the counter for the number of failed attempts resets if the IP owner logs in successfully. This means an attacker would simply have to log in to their own account every few attempts to prevent this limit from ever being reached.

In this case, merely including your own login credentials at regular intervals throughout the wordlist is enough to render this defense virtually useless.

---

## Account locking

One way in which websites try to prevent brute-forcing is to lock the account if certain suspicious criteria are met, usually a set number of failed login attempts. Just as with normal login errors, responses from the server indicating that an account is locked can also help an attacker to enumerate usernames.

Locking an account offers a certain amount of protection against targeted brute-forcing of a specific account. However, this approach fails to adequately prevent brute-force attacks in which the attacker is just trying to gain access to any random account they can.

For example, the following method can be used to work around this kind of protection:

1. Establish a list of candidate usernames that are likely to be valid. This could be through username enumeration or simply based on a list of common usernames.
2. Decide on a very small shortlist of passwords that you think at least one user is likely to have. Crucially, the number of passwords you select must not exceed the number of login attempts allowed. For example, if you have worked out that limit is 3 attempts, you need to pick a maximum of 3 password guesses.
3. Using a tool such as Burp Intruder, try each of the selected passwords with each of the candidate usernames. This way, you can attempt to brute-force every account without triggering the account lock. You only need a single user to use one of the three passwords in order to compromise an account.

Account locking also fails to protect against credential stuffing attacks. This involves using a massive dictionary of `username:password` pairs, composed of genuine login credentials stolen in data breaches. Credential stuffing relies on the fact that many people reuse the same username and password on multiple websites and, therefore, there is a chance that some of the compromised credentials in the dictionary are also valid on the target website. Account locking does not protect against credential stuffing because each username is only being attempted once. Credential stuffing is particularly dangerous because it can sometimes result in the attacker compromising many different accounts with just a single automated attack.